All right.
So now let's talk about research.
What do you need to do before you're ready to launch your Kickstarter.
Now the research phase should really happen ideally three months before you're ready to launch your
campaign.
There's quite a few things that you need to do.
And we're going to walk you through step by step some of those things but you need to be to allow yourself
enough time to do all of these things and in most cases and I've seen a lot of very rushed crowdfunding
campaign and I've seen people who've really taken the time to prepare thoroughly and the results are
completely different and it's quite dramatic.
So give yourself plenty of time before the date that you're going to list your campaign.
And so you can prep and do some of these things.
I'm going to talk about now the first thing I want to draw your attention to is some of the research
tools that you'll be needing.
And we've actually prepared a list of really useful tools that are going to find really handy throughout
your crowdfunding process and that is of course in your freebies package that you should have already
downloaded.
If not head back into the first module and you'll be to the download links.
So these tools are mostly free or at least have a free trial here which always have a generous free
trial here where are you going to be able to do the things I'm going to tell you.
And they include tools that you can use to edit your videos to a host of videos or tools that help you
with landing page creation or e-mail collection.
Whole bunch of other things.
Check it out and see what best suits you.
Now most people underestimate just how big an endeavor Crowdfunding is.
And in most cases you're not going to be working alone you're probably going to have a team member or
at least a virtual assistant who's going to help you out with especially the research phase.
And in order to get organized one of the best tools that we found is Trello.
So Trello is essentially like an online pinboard where you and your collaborators can work together
to see what of the task that needs be done and within each task what are the resources what are the
links what are these to do lists etc..
And usually the way that we tend to organize it is through a to do card and a dumb card.
So you can drag these tasks and projects around until you know you've got everything that's done.
And again also in your assets package that you've downloaded from this course you should have a crowdfunding
planner that we've prepared for you.
It's organized based on a time frame.
So scanning from T-minus 10 weeks all the way to.
During the campaign and after the campaign a whole lot of tasks organize along a timeline.
You can have a look and share with your collaborators and Trello is free to use.
And it's a great collaboration tool and you're going to find it really really useful during your crowdfunding
planning stages.
Especially now another Resul tool that I want to mention is a Web site called Client FM.
And the idea is pretty genius actually.
You have a whole bunch of very clever you know advisors or mentors and we all know how hard it is to
find mentors in this day and age.
I mean I certainly get probably requests for mentorship like every week.
And when you say yes you're essentially promising to do free consulting for the rest of your foreseeable
life.
So it's a very very big ask now clarity addresses that problem by providing contact details for experts.
Now you've got people on here who are venture capitalists and some really big name people who you can
go and get advice from and you can search for maybe crowdfunding or getting press you know or technical
consulting and a lot of these people who've written books who are very well published work very well
known within their field who you can get access to through a phone call and I'm on there as well.
And basically it's kind of like a premium phone line where you can get advice from experts in their
fields and actually get to talk to them in person.
So with crowdfunding very often you want people to review your campaign maybe to see if the description
is the pitch on point or what they think about the video if they have any advice.
And sometimes they really just there's one small hint can make a huge difference to the outcome.
So I recommend you have a look and see if it's right for you.
Now we're coming into a lot of the analytic and data tools that we're going to be showing you how to
use one of my favorite is a Web site called click track and here you can put in the Jarrell of a Kickstarter
project or the project name and it is dedicated Kickstarter.
A lot of times a lot of these tools are dedicated to Kickstarter because it is pretty much the whale
in the game its the biggest platform for Crowdfunding.
So what you can do is you can put in the RL of the Kickstarter project and it shows you a whole bunch
of stats like the funding progress.
How much money was raised every single day.
Where is the goal.
Have they reached it etc. and you've also got things like projection where during your campaign this
can be really really useful because you can see where is your lowest projection What is the lowest likely
outcome of your project and what is the highest likely outcome based on data up till that point.
So you can see with this project that I've just pulled up that currently on day seven of their campaign.
And based on the amount that's raised based on the rate of increase of funding contrac has projected
that the highest amount that they'll raise about 450 K and the lowest amount is about 250 came.
So that can be really useful to guide your strategy especially during the middle periods of your campaign
where things kind of slow down a little bit and you can look at some of the data to see what you need
to concentrate on.
And also it's a great way of spying on your competitors seeing what similar projects have raised and
what their strategies have been.
Now on a similar vein there's a tool or Web site called sidekick and there's links to all these resources
in the course that you're in.
So just have a look for the RL.
If you can't find it with Google and what sidekick does is that it pulls in data from some of the most
recent Kickstarter project and looks at a number of variables and predicts their percentage success.
Now they've also got a whole bunch of stats like this based on historical Kickstarter projects like
success rate per category.
So you can see certain categories like experimental or footwear might not have as high a success rate
as things like boardgames or children's books.
So with all of these tools they can't be the only thing that they use.
They're just one thing that's going to guide you to give you a greater chance of success and some of
these things you know you can't change like what category you're going to be in.
You've already got your project.
It's not really going to change which category you're going to put your project in but it's just a nice
guy to see you know how competitive is it is a certain category and so that you can figure out how much
traffic you really need to bring to make this project a success.
Another really useful chart they have is average campaign duration per category.
Now this is something that's actually quite practical because one of the biggest questions for a crowdfunding
creator is how long should I run my campaign for.
Right.
Because you know you can theoretically run it for as long as you like.
You know you can you can theoretically go for 60 days you know two months or you can go for as short
as maybe you know 10 or 15 days.
And we tend to recommend that the sweet spot is around 30 days.
And the data actually shows that as well.
If you look at this graph and if you look at the live graph on the actual website you can see that it
varies by category.
But generally the best performing i.e. the highest percentage of success is a campaign duration around
between 30 and 35 days.
So you can use all of this data to guide your own decision making.
Now the funnel web site that's worth a mention is a site called crowdfund fusion and it's not particularly
well-made.
They could have really done with a UI and uys designer.
But it does provide some useful pieces data what it does is that it pulls in all of the projects from
all the platforms.
So you've got Kickstarter in the go go a friendly and fundraiser so it pulls in all the data and you
can filter by location and you can search for certain types of projects.
It just gives you a wide spectrum of what projects have been done and which were successful which were
not.
And you can also look at how much money is raised on maybe Kickstarter versus Indiegogo or you know
the big ones versus the small ones.
So to guide your decision making and what platform you're going to choose and there are definitely cases
where people have chosen to go with indigo go rather than Kickstarter for certain types of projects.
Now going to talk about what those types of projects are later on.
But its a good place to get an idea of what types of platforms generate what kinds of results.
And it's very convincing.
Also when you look at the amount that usually raise on Kickstarter versus something much smaller like
fundraiser so have a look at all those tools and have a look at the list of tools that we've compiled
for you and start bookmarking some of those that might be useful for you in your campaign.